# Tari Network Terminology
Below are a list of terms and their definitions that are used throughout the Tari code and documentation. Let's use 
this glossary to disambiguate ideas, and work towards a 
[ubiquitous language](https://blog.carbonfive.com/2016/10/04/ubiquitous-language-the-joy-of-naming/) for this project.  

## Base layer
[Base Layer]: #Base-layer 'The Tari layer handling payments and secured by proof of work'

The Tari Base layer is a merge-mined [blockchain] secured by proof-of-work. The base layer is primarily responsible for 
the emission of new Tari, for securing and managing [tari coin] transfers.

## Base Node
[base node]: #base-node 'A full Tari node running on the base layer, validating and propagating tari coin 
transactions and blocks'

A full Tari node running on the base layer. It's primary role is validating and propagating tari coin transactions 
and blocks to the rest of the network.

## Block
[block]: #Block 'A collection transactions and associated metadata recorded as a single entity in the Tari blockchain'

A collection transactions and associated metadata recorded as a single entity in the Tari blockchain. The ordering of
 Tari transactions is set purely by the block height of the block they are recorded in. 

## Block reward
[block reward]: #Block-reward 'The amount of Tari created in every block'

The amount of Tari created by the coinbase transaction in every block. The block reward is set by the 
[emission schedule].

## Blockchain
[blockchain]: #Blockchain 'The linked sequence of Tari blocks on the Tari base layer'

A sequence of tari [block]s. Each block contains a hash of the previous valid block. Thus the blocks form a chain 
with the property that changing anything in a block other than the head block requires rewriting the entire 
blockchain from that point on.

## Coinbase transaction 
[coinbase transaction]: #Coinbase-transaction 

The first transaction in every Tari block yields a [Block Reward] according to the Tari [emission Schedule] and is 
awarded to the miner that performed the Proof of Work for the block.

## Digital asset
[digital asset]: #digital-asset 'Sets of Native digital tokens, both fungible and non-fungible that are created by 
asset issuers on the Tari 2nd layer'

Digital assets (DAs) are the sets or collections of native digital tokens (both fungible and non-fungible) that are 
created
 by asset issuers on the Tari 2nd layer. For example, a promoter might create a DA for a music concert event. The 
 event is the digital asset, and the tickets for the event are digital asset [tokens].
 
## Digital asset tokens
[tokens]: #Digital-asset-tokens 'or just, "tokens". The tokens associated with a given digital asset. Tokens are created
 by asset issuers'

Digital asset tokens (or often, just "tokens") are the finite set of digital entities associated with a given digital 
asset. Depending on the DA created, tokens can represent tickets, in-game items, collectibles or loyalty points. They
 are bound to the [digital asset] that created them.

## Emission schedule
[emission schedule]: #emission-schedule 

An explicit formula as a function of the block height, _h_, that determines the block reward for the 
_h_<sup>th</sup> block.

## MimbleWimble
[mimblewimble]: #mimblewimble 'a privacy-centric cryptocurrency protocol'
MimbleWimble is a privacy-centric cryptocurrency protocol. It was [dropped](https://download.wpsoftware.net/bitcoin/wizardry/mimblewimble.txt) in the Bitcoin 
Developers chatroom by an anonymous author and has since been refined by several authors, including Andrew Poelstra.

## ProtoTransaction
[prototransaction]: #prototransaction 'A new transaction from a client, such as a wallet'

When a client application, such as a wallet submits a new transaction request to the network, it is not a 
fully-fledged transaction. For instance 

## Transaction
[transaction]: #transaction 'Base layer tari coin transfers.'

Transactions are activities recorded on the Tari [blockchain] running on the [base layer]. Transactions always 
involve a transfer of [tari coins].

## Tari Coin
[tari coin]: #tari-coin 'The base layer token'

The base layer token. Tari coins are released according to the [emission schedule] on the Tari [base layer] 
[blockchain] in [coinbase transaction]s.
 
## Unspent transaction outputs
[utxo]: #unspent-transaction-outputs

An unspent transaction output (UTXO) is a discrete number of Tari that are available to be spent. The sum of all 
UTXOs represents all the Tari currently in circulation. In addition, the sum of all UTXO values equals the sum of the
 [block reward]s for all blocks up to the current block height.
 
UTXO values are hidden by their commitments. Only the owner of the UTXO and (presumably) the creator of the UTXO 
(either a [Coinbase transaction] or previous spender) know the value of the UTXO.

# Disclaimer

This document is subject to the [disclaimer](../DISCLAIMER.md). 